# Analysis-Of-Red-Wine-Data-For-Feature-Selection-And-Classification-using-R

Red wine data has been successfully analyzed for finding the important features which affect the quality of the red wine. We started feature selection using Multiple Linear Regression and Random Forest. Multiple Linear Regression helped us to extract six important features (Alcohol, Sulphates, Volatile Acidity, pH, Citric acid and Total Sulfur Acid) from the data and Random Forest helped us to extract four important features (Alcohol, Sulphates, Volatile Acidity and Density) from the data. After selecting these features two different models were built. The prediction accuracy for both the models were calculated using Random Forest and Support Vector Machine (SVM) and models are compared. In the case of Random Forest, the accuracy of model 1 is calculated as 68.33% and for model 2 the accuracy is about 66.94%. For SVM, the accuracy of the model 1 is 65.27% and for model 2 the accuracy is about 63.63%. So from the above analysis, we selected the first model containing six important features which are Alcohol, Sulphates, Volatile Acidity, pH, Citric acid and Total Sulfur Acid.

We have used the model 1 for classification and then compared the results of model 1 with model 2 containing four important features as well as with the model containing all the variables. For classifications, we have used three methods which are C5.0, Support Vector Machine, and CART. The results from all the three methods were not convincing and it became ambiguous to select the best model for the classification of the quality of the red wines.
